

Curto1998 - purine metabolism

This is a purine metabolism model that is geared toward studies of gout.

The model uses Generalized Mass Action (GMA; i.e. power law) descriptions of
reaction rate laws.

Such descriptions are local approximations that assume independent substrate
binding.

This model is described in the article:

[Mathematical models of purine metabolism in
man.](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/9664759)

Curto R, Voit EO, Sorribas A, Cascante M.

Math Biosci 1998 Jul; 151(1): 1-49

Abstract:

Experimental and clinical data on purine metabolism are collated and analyzed
with three mathematical models. The first model is the result of an attempt to
construct a traditional kinetic model based on Michaelis-Menten rate laws.
This attempt is only partially successful, since kinetic information, while
extensive, is not complete, and since qualitative information is difficult to
incorporate into this type of model. The data gaps necessitate the
complementation of the Michaelis-Menten model with other functional forms that
can incorporate different types of data. The most convenient and established
representations for this purpose are rate laws formulated as power-law
functions, and these are used to construct a Complemented Michaelis-Menten
(CMM) model. The other two models are pure power-law-representations, one in
the form of a Generalized Mass Action (GMA) system, and the other one in the
form of an S-system. The first part of the paper contains a compendium of
experimental data necessary for any model of purine metabolism. This is
followed by the formulation of the three models and a comparative analysis.
For physiological and moderately pathological perturbations in metabolites or
enzymes, the results of the three models are very similar and consistent with
clinical findings. This is an encouraging result since the three models have
different structures and data requirements and are based on different
mathematical assumptions. Significant enzyme deficiencies are not so well
modeled by the S-system model. The CMM model captures the dynamics better, but
judging by comparisons with clinical observations, the best model in this case
is the GMA model. The model results are discussed in some detail, along with
advantages and disadvantages of each modeling strategy.

This model is hosted on [BioModels Database](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/)
and identified by:
[BIOMD0000000015](http://identifiers.org/biomodels.db/BIOMD0000000015).

To cite BioModels Database, please use: [BioModels Database: An enhanced,
curated and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic
models](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/20587024).

To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

